
<p class="message">
  Use this page to remind you what's important.<br>
</p>

### The Wrong Question: What careers are you interested in?
I think that's the wrong question. Your career isn't something that you compartmentalise.<br>
Your life isn't separated into `Career` and `Not your career (Friends, Family, Hobbies...etc)`. That would be stupid.<br>
Your 'career' should be aligned with your personality so that it's a constant part of your life. You should aim to eventually work with people that you can invite over to your home - not just a 'corporate colleague'. <br>
Otherwise, your workplace will just be something that you tolerate because you need the money. 

### The Right Question: Who do you admire?
A lot of your personal heroes are great writers, professors and thinkers: men who were wise, knowledgable, and had the courage to take risks for their opinions. A lot of the time, they had contrarian, socially unacceptable views within their field. In some cases, it was much worse: a dangerous opinion under a totalitarian or fascist government.
<br>
In a way, they followed the Socratic ideal of **taking risks and paying the price for their opinions**. They weren't conflict-averse nerds who hid in the library. But they also weren't blind risk-takers who had no wisdom or intelligence. They had both courage and wisdom.
<br>
So maybe the right question to ask is: *How can you live like the men you admire?*<br>
And what can you work on, such that they would respect you if they ever met you?
<br>
That way, your profession is subordinate to your ethics and admiration. Not the other way round.

### Decision-Making, Risk, Writing, Independent Thought
* You want something where you can combine: 
    - Writing
    - Risk-taking (*skin in the game, courage*)
    - Risk-management & Decision-making (*wisdom, epistemic humility*) 
    - Independent Thought (*contrarianism, creativity, BS-detection as well actually*).
* These are the actions and behaviours that you find admirable.
* **If the decisions you make don't involve a fair amount of risk and independent thought, and if your work requires no courage or wisdom, are you really doing anything important?** 


* Where can you find teams that agree with this philosophy?
    - **Startups** - look at all the Silicon Valley guys who take risks with their time and money, to start multiple businesses. Paul Graham, Peter Thiel, Naval Ravikant...etc
    - **Hedge Funds** - look at the investors and hedge fund managers who love writing about their ideas and principles. Thorp, Taleb, Spitznagel, Buffet, Munger, Dalio, Asness, ...etc
    - **Venture Capital** - basically the intersection of startups and investing.
    - **Strategy, Intelligence, Decision-making, Risk** - a lot of interesting papers and thoughts I've read were written by guys working in Intelligence, Strategy, Policy and Medicine. Fields where epistemic humility and risk management is important, and screwing up has serious consequences.
    - **Writing** - writing itself is fun. But more interestingly, a lot of people working in the above industries tend to write and share their thoughts + insights.

### Wolves vs Lapdogs
* You want to work with opportunity 'hunting' teams. Teams that take calculated risks, have skin in the game, and make decisions with real consequences and measurable impact: **Groups of 'hunters' who understand the value of money, time and high-impact decisions in uncertain territory.**
* You **do *not*** want to work with a team of obedient employees who trade their time for a fixed salary, hoping for a 5% raise after 'working hard' and being 'disciplined' for a whole year.
* You **do *not*** want to be on a team with domesticated people who look forward to retiring, so they can 'enjoy' the rest of their crusty life. If you are looking forward to retirement, then maybe you've already lost.

### Non-Skills: What to Avoid
* Academic achievement is **not** the way you get into the hunting teams. Any obedient nerd can do well in exams. After a certain threshold, extra grades mean nothing.
* And same with obedience and consensus-following. Startups, Hedge-Funds and R&D are, by nature, contrarian and independent. 

### Real Skills - What To Actually Spend Time On
*So what actually matters?* What skills are the entrepreneurs, investors and self-owned teams looking for? What would they respect in a co-founder, co-worker or new joiner? What can you do to stand out from the rest of the crowd? 

**1. Write**
* Write interesting, idiosyncratic essays. Explore important, sometimes controversial and contrarian, topics.
* Develop clarity of thought. Develop independent, contrarian opinions. In which ways is the consensus wrong?
* Otherwise, how will you ever become a knowledgable decision-maker? 

**2. R&D - 'Stochastic Tinkering' + Intuition**
* Tinker around with whatever you find interesting at the time.
* e.g. Just read something interesting like, say, the intersection of Information Theory and Gambling? Cool. Go play around with it. Analyse data. Write code. Run some Monte Carlo simulations. Write an essay. Test out an investment strategy. Go tinker around with it.
* Pick up real-world intuition and instinct for what you learn, through practical 'stochastic tinkering'. 

**3. Build + Design**
* Build cool, elegant code with Python, LISP and maybe Haskell. 
* Go read SICP and master the material. Become a 'great hacker' and technical decision-maker.
* Don't be so reliant on others to build and architect systems for you. 
* You should be able to rapidly prototype any system you want, to a high standard.

**4. Character + Ethics**
* Live up to the standards set by the courageous, honest men you look up to. 
* Maybe that sounds cheesy. Sure. But there's a reason why you have an instinct for admiration and respect. It's deeply ingrained in your biology, the same way that loyalty and respect are deeply ingrained in pack-animals (like wolves, dogs and chimpanzees). It's not just a silly, idealistic emotion that you should ignore and relegate to the realm of fiction. 
* Be the respectable, trustworthy guy that people want to work with.*If you don't have any character, who would trust you or work with you over the long run?*
*  Spend time socialising and building a community. Build honest relationships with people. Even during and after possible conflict, there should be trust and honesty.
* If you were a corporate moron with no personality, you might blandly refer to this as 'sales, networking and stakeholder management'.  This is exactly who you don't want to be like.

**5. Art + Adventure - The Classical Homeric Approach**
* There's something strangely bland and robotic in specialisation and discipline and modern career-selection. It transforms an otherwise exciting, adventurous life filled with curiosity and courage into a bland, repetetive, series of predictable schedules with no serendipity or excitement. 
* So don't be too disciplined. Don't be a robot who specialises in one thing.*'Specialisation is for insects'.*
* Have some interesting art and adventure in your life. Develop the rest of your personality. Be interesting.
* Take the classical, Homeric view of being swayed and posessed by the ancient Gods. Use that as inspiration.
    - Want to know what it's like to be possessed by Ares? Go obsess over a martial art and see how much you can win. Maybe Brazilian Jiu Jitsu or Judo.
    - Want to know what it's like to be possessed by Hephaestus? Give your full attention to a craft. Build something with your hands.
    - What about Aphrodite? Well... ha. Go on dates with cute girls. You don't want to end up like the guys who had no options and had to settle for the one girl who gave them some attention.
    - Want to really appreciate literary art and beauty, as if you were possessed by Apollo? Go read Tolstoy, Hugo, Steinbeck, Marquez, Homer, Virgil, Cervantes...

### Some final comments...
That's the only way you can successfully become a smart, contrarian, interesting 'hunter' of opportunities.<br>
You **need** to focus on the points above. Spend all your time on them. In fact, maybe you should just ignore your grades. <br>
Enjoy the learning. Enjoy the thinking + tinkering. **But ignore the grades.** 



### And an interesting few observations on standard employment...
* If you get paid a nice amount of money, but are still an employee, here's the problem: You're rich enough to do what you want in the evenings, but not rich enough to do what you want in the morning. Still have to turn up to work on time, even if its not interesting.

* And, I noticed something 'fractal' about the standard employee life arc.
* So the story usually goes:
    - Work hard for the majority of your life when you're young and energetic. Tolerate the boredom. 'Work hard'. Force yourself to be 'disciplined' and a 'good employee'.
    - And then when you're older and tired and worn out, *then* you can retire and do what you want.
    - But... oh... funny. You're now old, tired and worn out - so you have *no* energy to do what you want. SO you go lie down and do nothing for the rest of your days. Maybe a bit of bland consumerism. But almost never your own project, with full energy.

* This is eerily identical to the arc of 1 weekday.
	- Work hard for the majority of your day when you're awake and energetic. Tolerate the boredom. 'Work hard'. Force yourself to be 'disciplined' and a 'good employee'.
	- And then, when the evening comes around, and you're tired, then you can leave work and do what you want.
	- But... oh... funny. You're now tired and its the evening - so you have *no* energy to do what you want. SO you go lie down and do nothing for the rest of the day. Maybe a bit of bland consumerism - Say the TV, or scrolling through facebook or something...

* And maybe there's some fractal symmetry to the week too. And maybe even a season, where the 'evening', or 'weekend' is now fractally transformed into a '2 week holiday'. 
