---
layout: page
title: Essay Threads
---

A list of essay titles that I'll (probably) never get around to writing...
Mostly the topics revolve around applied ethics and philosophy: stuff that'll help me take risks and make decisions under uncertainty. 


* **Risk and Leadership** - Leadership roles seem to go to those who can manage/mitigate risk the best, or to those who can take the best calculated risks. + Skin-in-the-game. + decision-making under uncertainty. "Historically (...) with a few curious exceptions, societies were run by risk-takers, not risk transferors." - N.N.T.
* **Reacting *against* something; Anti-Models; Via-Negativa** - "People focus on role models; it is more effective to find antimodels - people you don't want to resemble when you grow up." - NNT; "It is remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to be consistently not stupid, instead of trying to be very intelligent." - Charlie Munger; How to use anti-models to motivate behaviour; identity and personality traits are *reactive* and *comparative* to the rest of the population; why comparing your performance to your role models can sometimes be demotivating, but comparing performance to anti-models can be motivating; but take it too far and it becomes "I'm not like the other guys" 
* **Information Flow and 'Time-Dilation'** - Exploring how higher rates of information flow makes time seem to move faster in the moment. 'Stochastic Market Clock' for stock returns depends on trading volume. Memory formation and novelty, and sense of time in the brain. (firing frequency of dopamine neurons is connected with time-perception).
* **On Comedians, Lazy Geniuses and Counter-Signalling**, or the strange respectability of countersignalling ('wearing weaknesses as ornaments'), freedom for those who care least about their reputation, the unattractiveness of pretending, the ethics of information asymmetry, and focusing on the generating process over the outcome (+ connections to The Iliad).
* **Chaos and Uncertainty, From Multiple Perspectives** - an overview of 'chaos' (or disorder, or volatility, or uncertainty), viewed through different lenses. Controlling/defending against negative-chaos as Risk Management, versus exposure to positive-chaos as seeking excitement.(Topics/Lenses: Shannon/Kelly/Thorp and Entropy in Gambling/Risk, Nassim Taleb and information opacity in ethics/prediction/courage/convexity/risk, Jordan Peterson and chaos in psychology/mythology/neuroscience/belief/evolutionary biology.)
* **Polyadic/Synergistic Mutual Information, and Conflicting Information** - exploring synergistic mutual information and highly conflicting information, for opportunity/risk detection. Possible connections to Jensen's Inequality and Non-Ergodicity (+path dependence). Spotting conflicting information through clustering, or sequential screens.
* **Writing, to reduce uncertainty** - writing/expression about a technical topic to clarify your thoughts, and writing/expression as a technique to moderate and sort out psychological uncertainty (ref: James Pennebaker's work on expressive writing, and JP's talk on 'Self-Deception in Psychopathology')
* **Sculpting Probability Distributions** - Gambling/Trading/Investing seen as exposure to a Probability Distribution with an edge, and 'sculpting' the P(\_\) Distribution using quantitative screens, options, stop-losses and asset-allocation policies.
* **Opportunity Count, Tactile Feedback and Overplanning/Overthinking** - repetetive practice with tactile feedback and its importance in learning. How having exposure to many opportunities and options will prevent you from overplanning/overthinking and wasting time in imperfect theory, while allowing you to 'tinker' and progressively improve.
* **'Black Swan Hunting', Trend Following and Convexity** - a combined look at Nassim Taleb's 'Black Swan Hunting' idea, Livermore/Hite/O'Neill/Minervini's ideas on trend-following, and their connections to convexity (Jensen's Inequality). (And maybe a connection to the Kelly Criterion, for increasing bet size as the risk/reward ratio changes in your favour.)
* **Disagreeableness and Capacity for Danger, in Trustworthiness** - how disagreeability and 'dangerousness' can indicate more trustworthiness during times of chaos. (i.e. if you had the unquestioning loyalty of both a Poodle and an Akita, which would you trust more for protecting your home?). + implications for the social world (i.e. why 'Nice Guys', the human equivalent of a poodle, never seem to inspire real trust, regardless of how nice and loyal they seem.) 
* **Dog Training, Dopamine and Addiction** - conditioning behaviours through planned 'addiction' for dog training, and exploring the neuroscience behind it.
* **Jensen's Inequality and Addiction**, or why dopamine/reward uncertainty and the addiction mechanism might be linked to convexity.
* **Berkson's Paradox**, or why your smartest members might have the least qualifications, the hot-crazy problem, and possible implications in stock selection.
* **Drowning in Noise** - signal vs noise, generator vs outcome, probability theory vs statistics, core principles vs details; saying no to almost everything, how to spot the quality of the generator rather than the noise, (connection to 1st essay...... )
* **On Gatekeepers and Honest Rejection**, or a salty exposition on rejection and when it feels fair, the ethics of gatekeeping in professional and social life.
* **How to Gamble Your Hours Away**, or 2-hour/2-week/6-week experiments, time as a currency for betting,'rational flaneuring', 'antelope vs field-mice', the neuropsychology of curiosity/interest, the 'orienting reflex', and how to bet your time on what matters; something similar to the Kelly Criterion applied to compounding knowledge over time: more frequent, directed bets and iterations ('aggressive tinkering') for more compounding, versus slow bets that take longer to compound; 
* **One Act of Creation**, or why you should 'make before you manage'(T.Ferriss) on a daily scale, why you probably shouldn't 'wait until you have more experience' on a yearly scale, and path-dependent psychology.
* **On Creativity and Contrarianism**, or when 'arrogant' disobedience can be a virtue and conformity a vice. 
* **Dopamine, Play and Hunting**, or why we respect wolves more than rabbits, Eustress vs Distress, personal sovereignty, and ownership of beliefs and actions as a 'measure of humanity' (N.N.T.).
* **'High Agency', 'Relentlessly Resourceful', 'Aggressive Tinkering', 'Default: Aggressive'**, or why it pays to know how to say 'sorry, I f\*\*\*ed up' in the most charming way possible, and why following instructions is (sometimes) the wrong way to succeed.
* **Polytheistic Discipline**, or discpline viewed as sacrifice, and how to use polytheistic ideas to motivate interest in the right sacrifices. 
* **On the value of Constraints**, or why rebels and anti-authoritarians will always need a bureaucratic system to rail against, the necessity of an 'arch-nemesis' (E.Weinstein's idea), and why suffering and evil are almost necessary for a good story (+ connections to Dostoevsky, Nietzsche and Existentialism...?).
* **The Odyssey, Hospitality and Trust**, or why you rise and fall to meet their expectations, belief under uncertainty, that one Solzhenitsyn quote about 'the line', and putting belief before evidence (faith, trust, hospitality, ..etc) 
* **Unconditionality and Ethics**, or why it's only an ethical virtue if it involves a sacrifice; otherwise it's just 'obvious logic'. And the thought experiment involving many 20th-century citizens...
* **N-th Degree Knowledge Scaffolding + Convexity**, or the value of re-reading a good book, why writing helps you think, and why some researchers gain value from giving lectures. (connected to convexity & Jensen's Inequality)
* **Adventure through Consumerism?**, or the blandness of most proclaimed hobbies and interests. Risk/uncertainty as a pre-condition for 'true' adventure.
* **Exploiting Fleeting Entropy**, or the role of temporary distortions and conflicting information in threat- and opportunity-detection, 'waiting for uncertainty and using it as raw material' (Taleb, Antifragile), and Spitznagel's 'Dao of Capital' + Austrian investing, polyadic mutual information.
* **Tribes**, being invited onto a team that you respect, risk and sacrifice and service, selfishly offering sincere value in your own way (otherwise, it's just obedience and domestication), how you might measure the value you offer, the unspoken advantages of networks and serendipity, the crucial end-step in Campbell's idea of the Hero's Journey, an exploration of 'localism' and criticisms of connected yet disconnected city-life...




